NAME
====

HTMLLinker - tool to fix up href references in HTML files

SYNOPSIS
========

**HTMLLinker** \[*options*\] *input files* \[ **-l** *relocation file* \] \[ **-d** *destination file* \]  

DESCRIPTION
===========

**HTMLLinker** is a tool to fix href references in HTML files, typically API reference manuals generated by extracting the docstrings from source code by tools such as **autogsdoc**(1).

**HTMLLinker** accepts the following options (multiple *input files,* *-l* and *-d* options are allowed):

OPTIONS
=======

**--help**  
Prints a short list of available options.

**--version**  
Displays version information.

**--verbose**  
Prints additional information while processing.

**-Warn*** \[YES|NO\]*  
Print additional information about unresolved links.

**-LinksMarker*** \[xxx\]*  
Only fix links with attribute <b>rel=</b><i>xxx</i>

**-FixupAllLinks YES**  
Attempt to fix all links (not only those that are marked with *-LinksMarker*.

**-PathMappingsFile *file***  
Read the relocation mappings from *file* (in dictionary format).

**-PathMappings '{"*path***"="***another\_path***";}'****  
Use the specified path mappings.

**-BuildRelocationFileForDir*** dir*  
Build a relocation file for the directory *dir* and save it into *dir*/table.htmlink. This option is special and prevents any other processing by the linker.

SEE ALSO
========

**autogsdoc**(1), **GNUstep**(7).

AUTHORS
=======

**HTMLLinker** was written by Nicola Pero &lt;nicola@brainstorm.co.uk&gt;.

This manual page was added by Yavor Doganov &lt;yavor@gnu.org&gt;.

COPYRIGHT
=========

Copyright (C) 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved.
